We have a hefty hefty course,
planned here.
And I'm excited you all are along for
this wild roller coaster ride.
We have three jam packed days
of JavaScript ahead of us, or
three parts to the course if
you're watching the recordings.
And in each part we're going to focus
on some kind of particular aspects or
topics or concepts in the language.
And we're gonna do that by working
through a project, as I mentioned.
So today in the morning we're gonna
spend most of our attention on
the DOM the Document Object Model.
So we're gonna start by talking
about where JavaScript fits into
the overall website ecosystem,
with HTML and CSS and
we're gonna be talking
about data in JavaScript.
And the different types of data that we
encounter and what even a type of data is.
So we're gonna be looking at that in the
morning and then the afternoon we're going
to be talking about some ways that we
can group data together in JavaScript,
namely constructs that we call arrays and
objects and how we can work with those.
And throughout the day we're going to be
kind of messing with a little project
where we will be using our JavaScript
knowledge to play tic-tac-toe
against our neighbors or
ourselves In the browser, so that's day 1.
So day 1 we're gonna talk about
the values, the things in JavaScript,
the entities in the world.
Day 2,
we're gonna talk about doing things.
We're going to talk about functions which
are ways that we can carry out actions
in JavaScript.
And we're gonna talk about events which
are things that we can react to when
the user does stiff.
We can make JavaScript react to
the user behavior by means of events.
And so,
we're gonna talk about how JavaScript and
the browser handle events and what we
can do to make our websites interactive.
And then in the afternoon,
we're also gonna talk about how we can
control which code we're running and
how we can decide what the program should
be doing at any given point in JavaScript,
by means of, for example,
branches with conditional statements.
And then how we can also take chunks of
code that we need to run over and over and
over again and make our lives
easier by running them in loops.
So we're gonna talk about branches and
loops tomorrow afternoon.
And tomorrow's project, which we're
gonna work through throughout the day
is going to be building a little quiz game
to quiz ourselves and our neighbors and
our coursemates on how much JavaScript
we're remembering from day one.
By the time we get to day 3,
we're going to be getting into some
of the trickier bits of JavaScript.
So we're gonna talk about fetching data,
how we can grab data from
elsewhere on the web.
And that means we're also gonna have
to talk about some a little bit more
advanced concepts in JavaScript
such as a synchronous code.
We're going to talk about what that means
and how JavaScript handles code that we
don't know exactly how long it's gonna
take to run or when it's gonna run.
So we're gonna talk about that because
that is a concept in JavaScript that's
a little tricky.
And we're also gonna spend the afternoon
talking about some of the kind of real
life struggles that we're gonna have
if we're doing JavaScript development.
So we're gonna talk about errors and
debugging, and
how we can take the pieces of knowledge
that we've learned and then start
kind of iteratively working through
our programs and working on our code.
We're also gonna talk a little
bit about refactoring and
things like that that we need to do in
order to make our code hopefully better.
And we're gonna talk about dogs cuz
I'm a dog person, sorry cat people.
So our day 3 project is going to
be a fun little dog related game,
which yes is a pun on the word fetch.
We'll get to that [LAUGH]
in a couple of days.
So this is our grand plan.
We're gonna be working
through it together.
It's going to be an adventure, I'm excited
you all are along with me on this ride.
And before we jump in just a couple
of expectations or ground rules.
So first and foremost,
everyone belongs here in this course,
whether you are in the room with me today,
whether you are dialing in from all
around the world on the livestream,
whether you're watching the recording at
home, after the course has been released.
You belong here regardless of what your
experience level is, whether you've ever
programmed before, whether you've
ever seen JavaScript or perhaps
you've been working with JavaScript for
quite a long time, everyone belongs here.
So let's please be mindful of that.
And let's be really respectful of each
other's different perspectives and
different backgrounds.
And keep in mind that anytime you have
a question, that is a good question,
there is no such thing in
my mind as a dumb question.
There is no such thing as a question
that doesn't deserve to be asked.
First even if you think maybe you're
the only person in the world who has this
question, you are wrong.
If you have a question I guarantee
you somebody else has had or
will have the same question.
And the other thing I want us to focus
on is, yes we have a few projects to
complete, yes we have some topics we wanna
cover, but the goal for this course that
I would like everybody to walk away with
is just to grow in our understanding.
Maybe that's filling gaps in our
existing JavaScript knowledge.
Maybe we've been working with JavaScript
for a while, or maybe it is encountering
some of these concepts for the first time
and just getting a sense that they exist.
Just so let's be focused
more on growing our skills,
on walking away with more knowledge and
more tools in our tool
belt than we had before,
rather than hitting specific goalposts.
So if you don't manage to
complete one of the exercises or
if you don't manage to complete a project
the way that I've intended in the course,
that is not as important as,
have you walked away with some new
insight that you didn't have before.
So these are just kind
of the expectations.
And maybe before we move on,
does anyone have any comments or
questions at the moment, yeah?
>> Question about how much time
are we going to spend writing code.
So maybe generally like lecture versus
type along versus like the projects.
>> How much time are we
going to spend writing code?
Well, basically as we go,
we're going to be tinkering with
code pretty much continuously.
So there will be a few parts where
we're kind of zooming out and
talking a little bit more and thinking and
maybe even sketching to make sure our
mental models are kinda in
line with what's happening.
But the most of the course you're gonna
be seeing little tiny snippets of code,
where you can be tinkering along,
coding along and
even just trying out other
things yourself in the browser.
And then we will also be having some
time to solve some dedicated exercises
towards implementing our projects
that are probably be, I don't know,
one for this section.
We'll probably spend maybe 15 minutes
writing some code kind of on our own.
So I would say expect to have your
laptop in front of you the whole time.
We're gonna talk about where and
how we're gonna write JavaScript but
with your JavaScript interface open.
And as we go through we're gonna be
talking about the code that we're writing
and especially on day one, it's gonna
be kind of short little snippets.
And as we go through later in the course
we'll be spending longer chunks of time
writing code.